# 2. Combining input methods

_**How to develop these abilities**_

As listed on the first page, common human input methods include:

* mouse
* touchpad
* touchscreen
* keyboard
* keyboard layouts

It is always good to know multiple ways of achieving the same result, and the nuances between the methods if there are any. You will also discover which way is faster, in which situation.

## Discovering keyboard accessibility

On a new website, I will explore to see if keyboard interaction is available.

* Tap the <mark style="color:yellow;">`Tab key ⇥`</mark> several times to see how the element focus moves around the page.
* Press the <mark style="color:yellow;">`Forward Slash (Oblique) key /`</mark> to see if it focusses the page's search box. \
  &#xNAN;_(This is usually a good indicator of if the developers have considered accessibility conventions.)_
* Try pressing the <mark style="color:yellow;">`Question Mark key ? (Shift+/)`</mark> to see if there is a keyboard shortcuts popup. \
  &#xNAN;_(Make sure that no text box has the keyboard focus!)_&#x20;

At the same time as I'm tapping <mark style="color:yellow;">`Tab ⇥`</mark> to reach the button or box I want to use, I move my right hand from the keyboard to use the mouse, then move the mouse cursor to the same button/box. If using the mouse is noticeably quicker & easier, then I'll probably default to using the mouse for that task. It depends on what else I'm doing with the right hand on the keyboard — if I'm typing unusual words, it is preferable to keep my right hand placed on the keyboard. If I have to press <mark style="color:yellow;">`Tab ⇥`</mark> more than 5-6 times to reach the target button/box, I'll probably just use the mouse anyway.

* The <mark style="color:yellow;">`Enter (Return) key ↵`</mark> usually activates the default button in a window.
* The <mark style="color:yellow;">`Space key ' '`</mark> activates whichever button or object currently has focus. Object focus is usually shown using an outline, a dotted line, a different colour, etc. Pressing <mark style="color:yellow;">`Tab ⇥`</mark> moves the focus to the next object.
* Typing letters in a drop-down selector usually jumps to items in the list that start with the letter(s) that you typed. Sometimes, a developer has coded their own drop-down selector, so it might not behave as expected.

### Applications

Most desktop applications have a vast array of keyboard shortcuts built in. Some are hard-coded, but some allow you to edit the shortcuts.

Learn which shortcuts are fairly standard and universal, and then you will find it easier to memorize which keyboard shortcuts differ in each application.



## Touchpad

I use a few customized gestures for controlling windows on Windows.

* three-finger swipes control window positions
* four-finger swipes left & right switch desktop
* four-finger slide up activates the Alt+Tab window switcher
* four-finger slide down activates the volume control.

Combining three-finger swipes with the Alt key also gives you access to more snapping variations.

Activating volume control with a touchpad gesture is extremely useful, especially if you regularly use audio for your work. For example, I often give classroom presentations with audio tracks for listening exercises. Sometimes the volume is already too loud!

Even when I'm using a mouse or the keyboard on my laptop, I still find my left hand jumping to the touchpad to use these gestures. A simple multi-finger flick is much quicker than a key combination or moving the mouse cursor to the small part of a window to drag it to the right place on the screen and wait for the snap animation to check if it's in the right place.&#x20;







