# Gnome extensions

As polished as Gnome is nowadays, there are a tonne of things missing from it.

The devs say that that's by design, and that you can customise it to your preferences & needs with the Gnome Extensions.

However, every Gnome update manages to introduce changes that break most extensions.

That being said, here are the extensions I use.

* **AppIndicator and KStatusNotifierItem Support** — absolutely necessary if you use any apps that have system tray indicators. Somehow (?) the Gnome devs forgot to include support for this. This extension literally imports the function from KDE and Ubuntu.
* **CHC-E (Custom Hot Corners - Extended)** — Gnome Shell is famous for its hot corner: hitting the top-left corner with your mouse cursor activates the overview, exposing open windows and an app launcher dock. However, this hot corner does not work on second monitors — and indeed, if you add a monitor to the left of your primary display, the hot corner moves to the _far left corner_. Obviously ridiculous and obviously an oversight, the devs left it to _someone else_ to create an extension to solve this bug. CHC allows customisation of the hot corners, and CHC-E brings more features. I now have three hot corners.
* **Clipboard Indicator** — This indicator gives you access to the last x number of Ctrl+C copies you made, a la Windows's Win+V shortcut. It doesn't always work perfectly, but I think the bugs are not in this extension but actually within the apps and how they handle clipboard interaction.
* **Dash to Panel** (or Dash to Dock) — These extensions offer similar functionality, although Dash to Panel appears to be far superior in terms of customisability (which makes sense, because it was originally developed by Zorin OS). The only problem I've seen so far is that the font colour is hard to make out when changing between the Dash Overview and the desktop view, and the same case when changing between Light and Dark modes. System-level dark mode has been around for a while now so I'm not sure why this bug exists; maybe it'll be fixed soon.
* **Emoji Copy** — an emoji input panel that works regardless of what app you're in. The system-level inputs are always difficult to sort out properly, because of various teething incompatibilities between display manager (Wayland, X, XWayland, KWin), desktop shell (Gnome, KDE, Hyprland etc), input method (desktop's own, ibus, fcitx5, etc), the app you're trying to use (notable issues with chromium, electron, wine, qt under gnome, gnome under qt), _and_ idk what else but basically it's complicated and messy and you're better off using a desktop shell extension that resides at the user level. **Note that** Emoji Copy works by copying the chosen emoji into your clipboard and pasting it immediately (sometimes doesn't work), so this will replace your most-recently-copied clipboard item.
* **Impatience** — I just use this to slow down the animations slightly. No reason other than I like to see the animations more slowly, which can (sometimes) serve to make me slow down in my mind. **Note that** Gnome's method of handling keyboard inputs as shell function shortcuts seems to depend upon the current state of the animation, which behaves a bit unexpectedly if you make the interface animations _slower_.
* **Input Method Panel** — As with all other Gnome problems, the _fundamentally necessary_ component of typing _any language that doesn't use a simple linear input mode — **so that'd be languages used by several BILLION PEOPLE** (Chinese, Japanese, Korean, Hindi, Indic languages, Brahmic languages, etc etc etc)_ — the language input method panel, **is simply not available in Gnome**. Some kind soul has written an extension to support it, thankfully. Good job, Gnome Devs. How very White Patriarchal Colonialist of you.
* **Lilypad** — because, yet again, Gnome itself is lacking in settings, so there's literally no way to re-organise the panel menu items. Lilypad mostly works fine.
* **Quick Settings Tweaks** — because, you guessed it, Gnome has no settings for this. This extension allows tweaking of the Quick Settings panel and the Notifications-Date-Time panel. The defaults are "fine" as long as you don't actually _have_ any items in your calendar — if you do, the schedule section is literally too long for the screen. And if you have the Weather app installed, it'll appear here too, on the long side of the panel. This extension lets you move stuff around a bit.
*
